Now, let's write some TypeScript code.
And for this you find
my created react TypeScript project attached,
so that we all have the same starting point
even if that default app, which is created
by create react app should change over time.
Now, I didn't change anything here yet.
At the moment, I have all these starting files,
and therefore, I'll first of all,
clean them up a little bit.
I'll delete the app test file, the logo file,
the report web vitals and set up tests file here.
I'll delete all these files,
the React app env. file here, that's the file
we should keep around to have a TypeScript linked
into our project, so to say
But an index
.tsx
I now wanna remove that web vitals import
and I'll actually also get rid of strict mode here.
We don't need that here,
and get rid of that part down there.
And then here in app TSX,
I want to get rid of that logo import.
We can get rid of the react import in modern react projects.
Um you'll learn that you can omit this
and TypeScript projects are no exception here
and we can get rid of all that JSX content,
except for the div for the moment here
and then app CSS all now also,
delete all that code here
and then index CSS sub.
will actually keep um that default set up here.
I'll just get rid of the code selector,
but I'll keep the body selector here
and keep that default font family which is assigned
that is actually fine from my side.
And with that, we cleaned up this project.
We can save all these files now,
and now that it is cleaned up.
Let's write some react TypeScript Code
and the most important part here,
and the good news is that generally,
you still write the same code as you did it
throughout the rest of this course.
It's not like everything changes all of a sudden.
And that hopefully makes a lot of sense.
If you have a look at this app.TSX file
or the index.TSX file,
that code here, is exactly the same code as you saw it
throughout this course. There's no difference here.
No special type annotations,
because we don't need them here.
We're generally using
Typescripts built in type inference feature here,
but in general, this code here
simply doesn't use a lot of Types.
But that's something we're going to change through out
this module now, and you are going to see
where you can use TypeScript
to actually enhance your react code.
Now to dive into react and TypeScript.
I want to keep it fairly simple and we'll simply
build a basic to do app, a basic to do app where
we can add to do's, and delete to do's.
That will not be a super complex or fancy app
but it will allow me to show you all these core
TypeScript features you should know,
and for this, I'll start by adding a new components folder
in the source folder. And in there,
let's add a to do's .TSX file.
And that will simply be a file that should hold
a new react component.
Now, a react component still is a function or a clause
but as we did it in the rest of this course,
we'll focus on functional components here.
So here, we can add this
to do's function.
And then of course also export it to
make it available outside of this file.
Now, just like all the react components we built thus far
we need to return some renderable content
and that will typically be JSX.
And that again does not change at all.
So in here, let's say we wanna have
an ordered list because we have a couple of to-dos here.
And in there we have a couple of lists items, of course
with our different to do's,
like learn react or learn TypeScript.
And we'll later make those to do's dynamic.
And we'll make sure that a user can enter them.
But for the moment, I'll just create this
functional component like that with the hard-coded JSX code.
And now, we can use this to do's component here in app
in the app component,
simply, as we always did it by importing
to do's from components
To do's, you can omit the file extension here.
And then, here in that div,
or even without the div, doesn't matter,
you can output to do's.
And we can actually also get rid of app CSS here,
now that I think about it
since it's empty anyways.
But with that, if we save everything,
and we go back and reload this page,
we see our to do's here.
And that shouldn't be too exciting, of course
because that's a very basic react component, but it shows us
that we build react components
generally, as we learned it.
But it gets a bit more interesting,
if this to do's component actually
does not have hard-coded to do's
which we output here.
But if it instead receives to do's, through props
which you want to output.